{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1031\deflangfe1031\deftab708{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset238 Times New Roman;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 CMBX12;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 CMTT12;}{\f4\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{ Normal;}{\s1 heading 1;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}{\*\mmathPr\mnaryLim0\mdispDef1\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\widctlpar\b\f0\fs24 Readme version\b0  1.\f1\lang1045 2\f0\lang1031 , 0\f1\lang1045 2\f0\lang1031 -\f1\lang1045 07\f0\lang1031 -2019. Kristof Lebecki, {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:lebecki@fuw.edu.pl" }}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1\cf1\ul lebecki@fuw.edu.pl}}}}\f0\fs24  \b\par
\b0\fs34\par
\lang1033 Disclaimer\par
\fs24 This software was developed during my stay at the University of Konstanz (Germany), in the group of Prof. Nowak. Another person that helped me strongly was Prof. Chubykalo-Fesenko. Of course, I would not be able to accomplish this work without help of Michael Donahue.\par
You can use it in any way you wish (there is no special copyright). If you want to improve it however and modify it, please contact the authors \endash  certainly they will appreciate your help.\par
I would appreciate acknowledgement if the software is used. When referencing, I recommend citing following paper:\par

\pard\widctlpar\qc\ldblquote Key role of temperature in ferromagnetic Bloch point simulations\rdblquote\par
\lang1045 KM Lebecki, D Hinzke, U Nowak, O Chubykalo-Fesenko\par
\lang1033 Physical Review B \b 86\b0  (9), 094409\par

\pard\widctlpar\par
\fs34 1 Overview\par
\fs24 The aim of this software is to support the Landau-Lifshitz-Bloch equation (LLB) [Garanin\par
Phys. Rev. B 55, 3050, 1997] in the OOMMF project.\par
To accomplish it, a few new Oxs_Energy classes have been created for realization of LLB. Also, the evolver and driver had to be adapted.\par
\par
One thing the user should be aware is extension of the magnetization description. Usually, in micromagnetism you describe the state of the system with \par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720 the magnetization saturation, \i M\sub\i0 s\nosupersub , \par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}the direction of the magnetization, \b m\b0 . \par

\pard\widctlpar Because is \i M\sub\i0 s\nosupersub  constant you often focus on the variable \b m\b0  \endash  a \i normalized\i0  vector. \par
In temperature-aware simulations the situation is more complex. Beside the magnetization saturation (measured at zero temperature, \i M\sub\i0 s\nosupersub (\i T\i0 =0)) you have:\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720 equilibrium magnitude of the magnetization at the given temperature, \i M\sub\i0 e\nosupersub (\i T\i0 ), \par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}the actual magnetization having magnitude that possibly differs from \i M\sub\i0 e\nosupersub . \line Thus instead of unit-less field \b m\b0 (\b r,\b0\i t\i0 ) we describe it with a vector-field having units of magnetization \b M\b0 (\b r,\b0\i t\i0 ). \par

\pard\widctlpar\i This approach required changes in the original OOMMF files. There, the state of the system is described with more variables now.\par
\par
\i0 Another point worth to mention is the noise. In the LLB equation you have a stochastic term describing thermal fluctuations. You do not have it in my implementation, as I wanted to use the fast Runge-Kutta evolver. So, use this program in cases where you can neglect thermal fluctuations.\par
\par
\fs34 2 Installation\par
\ul\fs24 First of all,\ulnone  you must have the OOMMF 2.0 alpha 1 release (snapshot 2018.09.30). My program might work with different version of OOMMF, but I have not tested it.  \par
\par
\ul Second\ulnone , you must have a working compilation environment. I.e. you must be able to remove all OOMMF binaries (if they exist) and create them \ldblquote from scratch\rdblquote , by help of the compiler of course. The way to check the status of your compiler is described in the installation section of the OOMMF user\rquote s guide (chapter \ldblquote\f2 Check Your Platform Configuration\f0\rdblquote ), instructions how to compile OOMMF are in the next chapter (\ldblquote\f2 Compiling and Linking\f0\rdblquote ). \line\i If you have any error messages stop proceeding and contact the OOMMF authors\i0 . \par
\par
\ul Then, remove\ulnone  my old files from the \f3 app/oxs/local\fs20  \f0\fs24 directory (if present): \par

\pard\widctlpar\li708\f4\fs18 kl_changes.txt\par
kl_demag.cc\par
kl_demag.h\par
kl_help.doc\par
kl_infinite_prism.mif\par
kl_pbc_util.cc\par
kl_pbc_util.h\par
kl_progress.tcl\par
kl_simpledemag.cc\par
kl_simpledemag.h\par
kl_uniformexchange.cc\par
kl_uniformexchange.h\par

\pard\widctlpar\f0\fs24 They are obsolete, I think. Their functionality\emdash periodic boundary conditions\emdash is now available through standard OOMMF package.\par
\par
\ul Copy\ulnone  the following files to the OOMMF\rquote s \f3 app/oxs/local\fs20  \f0\fs24 directory:\par

\pard\widctlpar\li708\f4\fs18 kl_llb_util.cc\par
kl_llb_util.h\par
kl_llbrungekuttaevolve.cc\par
kl_llbrungekuttaevolve.h\par
kl_llbterm.cc\par
kl_llbterm.h\par
kl_timedriver.cc\par
kl_timedriver.h\par
kl_timeevolvervarms.cc\par
kl_timeevolvervarms.h\par
kl_uniformexchange.cc\par
kl_uniformexchange.h\par

\pard\widctlpar\f0\fs24 Copy \b and overwrite\b0  the following files in the OOMMF\rquote s \f3 app/oxs/base\fs20  \f0\fs24 directory. For your information, you have original version of these files in my base/ORG directory. \par

\pard\widctlpar\li708\f4\fs18 chunkenergy.cc\par
driver.cc\par
driver.h\par
simstate.cc\par
simstate.h\par

\pard\widctlpar\f0\fs24 (Alternatively, you can apply the differences to the existing files. You have to do it, however, on your own.)\par
\par
\ul Run the compilation\ulnone  script \b pimake, see the \b0 OOMMF user\rquote s guide:\par

\pard\widctlpar\li708\f4\fs18 tclsh oommf.tcl pimake upgrade\par
tclsh oommf.tcl pimake distclean \par
tclsh oommf.tcl pimake \par

\pard\widctlpar\f0\fs24 You should see a message about successful compilation of the files, then about the update \cf2 of the OXS binary\cf0 . I.e. something like this (I was compiling with g++ under Windows):\par
\f4\fs16 C:\\>tclsh oommf.tcl pimake\par
Updating C:/oommf/oommf20a0_20170929.fresh.app.01/pkg/oc/tclIndex ...\par
Making directory 'C:/oommf/oommf20a0_20170929.fresh.app.01/app/mmdisp/windows-x8\par
6_64' ...\par
(...)\par
b -L../../pkg/oc/windows-x86_64 -loc C:/programs/ActiveTcl64/lib/tk85.lib C:/pro\par
grams/ActiveTcl64/lib/tcl85.lib -Wl,--subsystem,console -o windows-x86_64/\cf2 oxs.exe\par
\cf0 Updating windows-x86_64/appindex.tcl\par
<9504> pimake 2.0a0  info:\par
Target '' up to date.\par
Built Thu Jan 04 16:33:49 CET 2018\par
Current time: Thu Jan 04 16:33:49 CET 2018\par
\f0\fs24\par
\i In case of any strange messages I recommend contacting me.\par
\i0\par
\fs34 3 Usage\par
\fs24 Following are described the changes to your \ldblquote usual\rdblquote  MIF specification.\line Only two parameters here are optional (\f4 normalize_aveM_output, stopping_dM_dt\f0 ), the rest must be set.\par
\par
\fs28 3.1 Klm_UniformExchange\par
\fs24 Specify this \b instead\b0  of the Oxs_UniformExchange term. \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\ul Parameters\ulnone\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\f4 kernel\line\f0 Value (fixed): \f4 6ngbrLLB\f0\par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}\f4 A\line\f0 Value: exchange constant for given temperature (Joule/meter). \line Site note: \i A\i0 (\i T\i0 =0) is the usual used value of exchange constants. For \i T\i0  approaching \i T\sub\i0 C\nosupersub , the exchange constant drops to zero.\par

\pard\widctlpar\par
\fs28 3.2 Klm_LLB_Term\par
\fs24 Specify this \b additionally\b0  to other energy terms. \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\ul Parameters\ulnone\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\f4 chi_parallel\line\f0 Value: parallel susceptibility for given temperature (unitless). \line Site note: \i chi\sub ||\nosupersub\i0 (\i T\i0 =0) is equal to zero. For \i T\i0  approaching \i T\sub\i0 C\nosupersub , it diverges positively.\par

\pard\widctlpar\par
\fs28 3.3 Klm_LLB_RKEvolve\par
\fs24 Specify this \b instead\b0  of the \f2 Oxs_RungeKuttaEvolve\f0  evolver. \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\ul Parameters\ulnone  (I list here only LLB-relevant)\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\f4 relative_temperature\line\f0 Value: given temperature divided by the Curie temperature (unitless). \par

\pard\widctlpar\par
\fs28 3.4 Klm_TimeDriver\par
\fs24 Specify this \b instead\b0  of the Oxs_TimeDriver driver. \par

\pard\keepn\widctlpar\s1\ul Parameters\ulnone  (I list here only LLB-relevant)\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\f4 normalize_aveM_output\line\f0 Value: 0 to avoid normalization of the magnetization in the output. Or 1 to have it normalized. \line Optional.\line Default: 1.\par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}\f4 stopping_dM_dt\line\f0 Use this parameter instead of OOMMF\rquote s \f4\fs18 stopping_dm_dt.\f0\fs24\line Value: Ampere/(meter*second).\line Optional.\line I suggest something close to 1.5*10\super 11\nosupersub  (I work mostly with permalloy). Of course, you can use alternative stopping criteria.\par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}\f4 Ms_T0\line\f0 Value: magnetization saturation at zero temperature (Ampere /meter). \par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}\f4 Ms\line\f0 Value: equilibrium magnetization at given temperature (Ampere /meter). \par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}\f4 Ms_initial\line\f0 Value: initial magnetization length (Ampere /meter). \line You will probably set it often equal to \f4\fs18 Ms\f0\fs24 , but this is not necessary. You can choose any positive value, just avoid zero: this might lead to numerical troubles.\par

\pard\widctlpar\tx3240\par

\pard\widctlpar\fs28 3.5 Sample MIF file\par
\fs24 Attached sample MIF file shows typical (for me\'85) usage of the parameters.\f4\par
\f0\par
\cf3\fs34 4 Restrictions, limitations, bugs\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\widctlpar\fi-360\li720\fs24 Setting \i T\i0 =0 leads to much slower simulation.\line Plus, there might be some loss in the energy precision. I have not investigated it deeper, but comparisons with standard LLG simulations showed no remarkable difference/deviation.\line Also, in this case setting parallel susceptibility to zero might lead to numerical issues, I am afraid.\line To make long story short: My advice is setting \i T\i0 =1 K, or something similar.\par
{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}No support for the \f4\fs18 -restart \f0\fs24 parameter.\line So far\'85\par

\pard\widctlpar\cf0\par
\cf3\fs34 5 FAQ, frequently asked questions\par
\b\fs24 Q\b0 : Will you include the noise?\line\b A\b0 : No, for that use the code of Yu Yahagi, see {\cf0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/yuyahagi/oommf-llb }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/yuyahagi/oommf-llb\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 .\par
\cf0\par
\cf3\fs34 6 License\fs24\par
\cf0 Public Domain.\cf3\par
}
 